welcome everyone to this week's ipld
sync meeting
it's october 26 2020
and as every week we go over the stuff
that we've
worked on the past week and that we were
on the next one and then discuss
agenda items and i'm just checking if
the live stream actually works because
it looks strange oh it does oh cool
somehow the youtube autoplay is not auto
playing anymore
because i know i had to hit the pause
button i was confused that i don't have
to but
okay that's great um so um
i dare to start with myself and so
this week i actually um had time to work
on um some italy stuff
um i've did a few exploration reports
about
um the id data model and map keys and
strings and so on
and um so uh the short version is that
open one which was just like a starting
point for the discussion
and there but what i the important thing
there i think is that
i would like that we make start to make
a clear distinction between the
data model the programming language and
the codec
and because like currently i think in
the specs is kind of
combined at a few places and i think
yeah making this
distinction clear would be good also
make the discussions easier
and the other way i did was on data mode
and map keys which was based on
i'm chatting with eric on irc about the
stuff
and so the conclusion of the exploration
report is that
um map keys should perhaps be their own
thing and not be a kind that we already
have
um and so just make it clear for people
and watching this so exploration reports
are written by someone and
it's more or less also like an opinion
about how things work so it's not like
it's in our
definitive spanking things we use but
just like
yeah um ideas which then might go into
space
um yeah and
on the rust side of things so rust
multi-foam and sodium finally i did a
rust multi-base release which was low
overdue
which adds the base 64
a 36 encoding and sadly on a smarty hash
there's no release yet because there's
still one pr that's that is
kind of a review it's all details but
hopefully this week i will do a proper
customer dash release in the last cd
release and i certainly
still haven't heard back from all the
p2p people but i will now just go ahead
to the release
and then rebase my pr only p2p and hope
that they then
will review that pr and get it merged
because so i did a quick review so i got
a quick review on the little p2p stuff
and it seems that generally it's okay
because i wanted to postpone the release
basically so that they can still get
packing changes in before i do release
but it seems that they don't need it so
i'll just do the release and
if they still need it we can still do
another release
um i think that's all i did for ipod so
next on my list is rock
okay um
so i've done some a bunch of little
things and a few big things so a little
bit of multi-hatch multi-codec
work mainly javascript
such as a blank two multi-hasher
um some dag
go dag pv work not much of that though i
really would like to just get that
finished off
and done some more go car work some more
javascript car work which
is another one that is is nearing
completion it's just a matter of
committing to various api decisions
but i'm actually using the i've got a
branch
with the new work and i've been using
that everywhere and it's really good
so i just need to close that off and
publish that as this new car library
a little bit of js schema work which i
haven't touched for a while
so um because that overlapped with the
other work i was doing and these these
three
big things that i was i've done last
week so one of them is this
jsi pld schema describer
which will take a javascript object
and will describe it with an ipld schema
in as minimal way as it can without
using
um some of these flexible options like
um
like nullable and unions so
it'll give you a relatively naive
schema for any javascript object that
falls within the data model anyway
and then on the flip side i
did js ipld scheme of validator which
will build your little javascript
validate function for any given
ipld schema that you can stamp against
a javascript object and say does it
match the schema
and they're minimal and fast and this
supports that all of the schema features
except for the
string join and string pairs
representations that's the only things
that it doesn't support
but um that's really neat it um
you can see a lot of use cases for that
but um it's mainly interesting within
the realm of schemas but
um because i put these two things
together in this car to schema
project and this so this comes about
because we did
make some not explicit commitments
to file coin about helping them
understand their data better
because they are the pressure is on them
to reduce the
size of their storage um
by some by some degree and um there's
all sorts of proposals out there some of
which
we have flagged as being a problem but
we'll probably go ahead without anything
else so
um i thought somebody better do some of
this work so
um this carter schema thing is
it will take a car file and run through
it and it'll describe all the shapes in
there in schemas
and so you get all the unique schemas
it'll spit out
but then also what i've now added is the
ability to feed it a library of schemes
as well
so it'll first check against your
existing schemas
and if it's got them it'll tally them up
if not it'll describe them with
with the schema describer so you end up
with this two-part thing
with the aim that you would move from no
library to a full library
and then you would be able to see what
blocks are taking out the majority of
stories you've got to count them by
by block counts that match the schemers
uh and then also
um beyond that would be nice to have
some statistics about sizes of blocks
so you could say things like the
altcoin blockchain has 30
nodes that are intermediate amt
nodes and they take up on average 64
bytes
and that's kind of garbage so that's the
kind of thing you should be able to say
with this
and then that that should lead to better
decisions about
how to optimize and and not just jumping
the gun on things like
let's just do small blocks in line as
cids
which is on the table and will probably
be
implemented as one of the first
solutions to dealing with
chains eyes if we don't have better
input
so that's that and now
the where i'm at with that is i was
going through will's um
what is it called what's the project
called oh the state div um where
will has built already schemers in the
go rpld prime language for
the for for far coin and i've been
trying to
build some the problem is with with
these
with these data structures is that
you've got some a lot of the nodes
are things like the hampton or the amt
where the values are in line
and so you want the schema to describe
the the data structure plus the inline
values
and avoid the use of any
because you really do want to be able to
describe that part as well so
you're going to end up with schemas that
are like amt with
this value and amt with this value
um and yeah that'll be
interesting so yeah i punted on all of
that stuff
in the one that i had as you can see
that i did the
um sort of interpreted representation so
a hampt is just a map
of things for instance rather than
trying to describe those intermediate
nodes of how it's actually laid out and
i think that's something where there's
work maybe is that what you're working
on dan
so eventually we'll have some way to
plug in these adl
things maybe um but yeah
yeah so trying to figure out
because this next challenge is okay i've
got a scheme of describing a thing
i had no idea what that thing is because
i'm not very familiar with the
falcon data structures and i have to go
digging through stuff and i'm just
thankful that will's done a lot of work
although
i've only only just started it yesterday
and already having trouble just with
initial shapes like i've got a struct
with three
properties you know two cids and int and
uh
bytes i can't find anything that matches
that so far so
it's a bit of a game it's sort of the
kind of thing where you want somebody
who's much more familiar with the data
structures to do some of this work but
um i don't know if i can really tear
anyone off for that i mean i guess the
other point here is rather than just
being like i've got this block and i
don't know what it looks like
if you do reconstruct by walking
so you have parents and things in
context
for when you get to a block that you
can't recognize that will probably be
more helpful of like oh this is
the cid that was linked and is is a link
off of
this thing like even if you can't
recognize the direct type
contents which sometimes it's like very
sparse in a way that you might not be
able to
that path of where it shows up
is a super useful yeah
that that's an it's a nice ideal it's
just
um tackling such a large amount of data
in a sort of this random access
way is is tricky and so the way i've
been solving it so far has been
just feed me blocks in whatever order
they are in the car file and i'll figure
that out
um but there is there is utility in the
in the linking information that i just
i haven't touched at all because it's
just a it's a problem space
it's a little bit too complicated for
what i want to bite off for now but
really you should be able to talk about
relationships between
blocks but right now it's like i reached
cid
that's just a link and what's beyond
that don't care about that for now so
but this is throwing up a whole lot of
areas of really interesting areas
really interesting spaces for additional
work or research
um that i don't have time for now i
don't really want to
be doing this for a long time i've got
to get back and finish off a bunch of
other things
but um it's definitely a rich space for
practical work i think but i can i can
already see things like with useful with
this like i've got a
i have to finish off the bitcoin code
expect
and part of that was describing things
in schemers and um
i've already i've written some schemas
just you know handwritten that i
that match what i see it'd be nice to be
able to validate them or actually use
this to create
some initial schemas and then build some
matching here so
there's already utility i've applied it
to dag pb as well um that's interesting
work as well to validate
some of the schema decisions there um so
there's actually a lot of practical
stuff in here that
could grow give me an example uh or
point me to an example i mentioned last
week i'm doing a lot of work with cbdl
concise data definition language
and uh there's actually a russ library
pointed to you guys too last week um
it's not fully completed but i'm gonna
start contributing to that for the stuff
i'm working with
did and building in some branching logic
so basically you can just do test cases
of
uh either classes or types actually just
to do
satisfy that in in rust and so i think
uh
but if you give me just pointing i'll
just ponder it a little bit
rod i was just thinking like i may end
up actually just writing this or
poking out but i think that there's like
an interesting sort of
um iterable approach that you could take
to using this tool where you basically
just say like this is the schema for the
root block
and and this is where you start and then
as it's building out or trying to figure
out other schemas
you at least know where the branching
came from
right so if you're saying like oh i i
don't know a bunch of data that's like
in this property and here's a bunch of
schemas that i've kind of generated for
it
you at least get oh you kind of know
where the context of where it came from
and then you have a much easier time
kind of writing a new schema on top of
the data that you just got
and then every time that you kind of
lock one in you gain more information
and you're segmenting
more sort of the information about where
the blocks are that you don't understand
right
yeah there's a like even yesterday was
talking with alex about
their challenges with storage and badger
um and then looking at novel ways to
deal with that
some extremely novel but even just
knowing like what what is the nature of
the way that the
the heads of these data structures lead
to different sizes of structures
underneath them so okay we have a
this this you know we've got the
ultimate route but we you know we have
these
other routes beneath them of different
things like what is the
what is the spanning nature of these
things and just not being able to see
that or
or um have numbers for that is is really
frustrating
and it would be good if we had better
tools for that but um
yeah anyway this is a start and there's
a bunch of ideas that come out of it
next on my list is danielle
cool so i think i mentioned this a few
days ago but there was somebody
who actually wrote a version of go
multihash
as as in the library and we didn't know
of each other
um because i had written down a plan to
do it but i just hadn't written much
code yet
so i ended up reaching out to them
there's a link in the notes
and surprisingly they were you know open
to my feedback so
we've i've gone through a few review
cycles with this person
and mostly was just removing some of the
code that they wrote
and polishing up some of the rest and i
think i'm pretty happy with the state
now so
i'm gonna sometime this week i'm gonna
revive the gomoza hash repo
cherry picking this person's commit and
then just adding a couple of things of
my own
um but obviously any changes that i do
on top are going to be requests
i also did a bunch of ham to do's
supporting arbitrary values
also multiple hash algorithms i also
updated to the new schema
which i mostly did the week before this
one
but then um it's when i unearthed that
bug in the schema which was fixed
after the call and i right now what i'm
working on is support for nodes that are
linked
instead of just inline because that
requires me to add a bit of extra api
for a link loader and so on i also read
the docs finally read the docs that eric
and volker wrote on strings and map keys
so i'm not going to open that debate
again but
i think i finally understand what the
sticking points are and i think i formed
an opinion even which i'm pretty happy
about
and finally i also filed a couple of
issues to improve
koi pld prime's go code generation
and besides that not really ipld related
but
because goes freeze is coming up in
like four days i've been scrambling the
past week because there's a few things
that i really wanted to get in but they
were lagging behind
so i got two of them merged but the
third one isn't like nitpicking
hell and i'm really upset about that it
might not be merged before the freeze
comes and then
you know you have to wait another six
months but that's it for me
thanks next one is peter
oh boy uh yeah hi everybody uh so
actually very little ipl this stuff even
though i was kind of part of all this
uh efforts around around the chain in
one way or another
um so the kind like that
the very ipod related thing is uh
i got uh some actual raw data to a bunch
of folks
uh not included so you know a lot of the
a lot of the like initial exploration
was done over live data
um and also am part of several
uh efforts both in sentinel
and in the exploration of data store
performance just to basically
quantify what works and what doesn't um
i'm also like on on the
side somewhat working on a
on a prototype to basically have a
two-layered block store
one for what you need to have right now
and another one to get blocks from
elsewhere
and basically with the migration
strategy from one place to the other
um a little bit annoying to be honest
that
people who know way way way more than me
about this stuff are focused on like
optimizing badges and stuff like that
whereas uh long term this just can't
can't work for us uh like our chain is
just too
too big like when i say too big i
i really um recommend for
anybody who hasn't actually touched
falcon to just get one of the car files
that i left in the ipod
room there like different uh layer
levels of
big essentially uh yeah yeah if it's
it's 500 million keys right now right so
nope nope nope
if it's already that big that means that
in a year they're just there won't be a
storage mechanism that you can use
locally that is sufficiently
fast like we just we literally don't
have the technology so like we need to
do that well yeah
yeah but then then you need to figure
out like what is the set that you need
locally and what is it
that you can push out yes
yes and and because there is like little
focus on like longer term thinking okay
i want to like put together something
like super janky and not to be included
everywhere
will not to be included everywhere
anywhere not not like what happened to
my
first proper concept that now is being a
pr please no
but to to see basically
even if it's viable and then we can
dance from that kind of
to a little bit to give more context to
what uh
rod said um yes they are inter
they are definitely interested in
reducing the size uh i'm a little bit
skeptical that any kind of band-aid will
work for uh reducing the size because
just of the
complexity of the actual schema of the
chain
not the schema of the individual blocks
but the
like the schema as we understand you
know is a relationship model
that's number one number two um i'm
actually not sure that
there is a way to get out of this
because if you run a histogram on the
actual
block store um 95 percent of the blocks
are under 2 kilobytes
of this 500 million and
no sorry my bad 99 percent are under 2
kilobytes
95 are under
512 bytes we have a ton of blocks
that are one byte large
with the hash and everything you know
around it
so um what
one fight long
to figure out what you're up against
like before you actually delve into
into into how you're interpreting the
actual schema because like
this will form a lot of how you are
thinking about oh what do i do with that
well and but this goes back to that same
that same thing we need to be able to
pre give provide ways to visualize
or provide statistics at least for how
these shapes work out in practice
because
a lot of this architecture has gone it
that has gone into it has been about um
this seems like the right place to hang
something or let's put a link here
that seems right well let's let's in
line this one it seems right
but you just can't see the result of any
of those those decisions
well it's not just you know nobody can
see the results of the decisions that's
basically right that's what i mean
that's what it does like i'm talking
about this is a general problem for ipld
for
system designers right this is a real
problem
you know actually i ran into the same
issue with uh this
this healthcare thing i'm working on
working on some other guys and we're
like we just need to be able to
visualize the dag
um to understand it and communicate it
um and i didn't really think about the
size of the blocks but that's actually
another aspect of visualization
so and i agree i mean i think when you
start moving in this world where use
like we have tools
like relational databases you can draw
the schema out
um you know and it's construct it's
controlled there's other ways you can
you can do it but be able to visualize
this and make a lot of sense
and yeah so that's uh that's kind of my
my update
so that was nice just to be clear so
peter you said there was a lot of blocks
that had
that the block data was one byte long
yes
do you know what that is what they are
well why would you do that why would
that when would that happen
that's like some kind of muted sentence
michael you muted wait there's not that
many one-byte
configurations it's like it's only eight
bits like how do you have this many
blocks
they have this bit field data structure
that they use occasionally
it could be that they could be they
could be linking to a bit field and it
ends up
being but you can only get stupider yeah
yeah
you'd still de-duplicate anything over
255. like
i'm not saying there are like millions
of them obviously there aren't i'm
saying there are even blocks that are
one bite long and basically there is the
entire camera
like uh oh yeah yeah okay okay okay okay
okay okay
actually actually i think i think i have
it hold up yeah there it is
so this is the histogram uh of
of the chain i mean it's small because
because i i ran it this way uh
the first three columns are up to 390
bytes
390. the first three columns and so
your your columns are how are four
pixels wide
yeah exactly okay okay okay okay just
making sure that you didn't have
four columns next to each other for yeah
no no no no those are
those are the first okay and this is
basically this is most most of the
chains
actually and then you come a little bit
here yeah
yeah go ahead that's total size not
number of bytes
the the height of this graph is total
size not number no no the height of this
graph is how many
number of blocks how many okay okay so
so but like when you get
down farther here that actually could be
more of the actual
bytes of data it's just yeah i mean that
that doesn't help you with badger
because the problem is the number of
keys but i'm just trying to figure out
like what yeah
okay yes yes yes well
this goes back to those same tradeoffs
we've been talking about for ages which
is
they're they're they're optimizing i
think in a lot of cases for mutation
costs so
they did benchmarking early on in the
hampton and came up with bit width of
five
which only gives you an arity of 32 in a
block which are
relatively small blocks but then but
the reason that was chosen was because
the speed of mutation and the cost of
doing mutations was low enough
so you end up with a lot of small blocks
but you you keep on reusing those blocks
because your mutations don't have to
insert new big blocks just for a small
change so
uh trade-offs everywhere it's just
that's i think this is this is a big
part of our job is
educating and providing tools around
trade-offs
yes because again like if
the actual amount of
like the chain is big because we are
trying to put a lot of messages on it
like there is
a limit at which you just cannot you
know optimize things anymore you just
need
separate states so um
this kind of what i'm trying to say like
try to see for a smaller
set of this like small blocks what
they're uh hanging off of
because this might be just what we
designed
data wise and there is no there is no
magic to
like make it a better you know amount of
blocks or something like that
so it basically means that eventually
the small blocks won't get more because
we have all of them
like at one point we have all all three
300 byte blocks in the chain like all
possible combinations
that's a lot of blocks
so i had a really i had a quick chat
with uh
with jeremy today and he mentioned that
raul is poking around at
a potential badger replacement and and
he actually made the point that this was
i i should have thought of this and rod
you'll appreciate it um
but badger uses an lsm tree and an ls
entry
like really wants your keys to be
ordered and
to have some kind of like consistency to
where you're mutating them and so the
fact that we're in
like inserting random keys into this
just makes the
the actual data structure on disk like
really inefficient so
like you don't have to like ls entries
don't have to be sorted
in theory like in better they are but
you don't have to no no no
so yeah no no but it it really helps if
your mutations are around the same place
in whatever the structure looks like no
no
no no no no it doesn't matter like it
doesn't matter like it's like
i forgot the name of the storage like
there was one in earlier which basically
did
similar to lsm but not sorted like it
was just a hash map basically and you
can do like
you can kind of do lsm
with kind of like a hashmap kind of
structure
like it's totally a multi-level storage
system
um but but the tr but the lsm like the i
was talking to
alex about this because alex is pointing
is poking at it too
that these data structures like badger
and level db and
um even lmdb they they all exist
to support range queries and they're
optimized for the sorted case so
the traditional lsm it exists to support
sorting like there are use cases where
you can do it without but but these
things are optimized around sorting and
there's nothing that we do
that requires sawing and so um all we
care about is fast retrieval of keys
which sorting helps with
but it's not the only way to do it so i
mean there is a lot of scope here for
potentially just saying
let's just have a new data store um that
is yeah and customized
lookups and more importantly the
insertions are
actually what's killing us because our
insertions are guaranteed like for every
single key
the next one is guaranteed to be on the
other side of the index because of the
hashing
yeah and like
exactly and and and to be uh
to put him a more in perspective uh
today the answer for uh i have been
running a note from the very beginning
and it doesn't stay in sync anymore the
reason for this is the insertion into
badger takes like about 25 seconds now
and in 30 seconds you get the new block
in so the answer is literally
delete your badger import a new smaller
chain and continue from there
like that's where we are a lot of people
started having problems once their
chain database grew above 512 gigs
for reference of where we are in terms
of size
that's what i think is so i think i
should specifically
like i still have this storage like fall
i know like
10 years in my head i just want to build
it finally and i can do such cases so
it's like
i want to build it finally um
yeah you might be cold on sooner than
you think
yeah but i don't want to do it and go so
[Music]
which might be a problem because i've
heard that seagull is a no-go
which actually rhymes with this you
could
people are trying to do where they have
some sort of crazy
transformation of the sea into native go
to avoid seagull yeah but the
the go folks don't mind finding the rust
stuff like rust is actually pretty fast
for them
so like the seagull is a is a no-go but
the rust stuff is actually pretty quick
no i think like for storage like you
would also go through
like there are hex to not do it but like
like not
like theoretically but not practically
so yeah i don't think it's this
anyway um it just binds
rust binds to a gold binary through c go
as well
it's it's the lipstick uh sorry the the
the c api right there's synchronization
costs to get over to rust in the same
way as
to see and that is fine for
more expensive things like proof
validation but for
all of your storage items that's going
to be pretty painful
and to flip it into go manage memory and
back out
also is not something you want to do i
think
having you're supposed to be able to
avoid that like that's kind of the point
of the
there there's zero cost of tracking on
both sides
yeah yeah um just uh who's currently
poking at it because i want to forward a
paper because like that's
like who's currently looking into this
on the fico side
there's two efforts there's roles
actively looking at
at you know possibly replacing things
alex is also doing some other work
i think longer term but i've i've
already suggested that he talk to
a couple of you but i think you should
definitely
hit alex up with some information yeah
cool yeah because
yeah that's okay cool um i will do um
so uh next is will i'm actually excited
because i normally ask
anyone else and all you will doesn't
have something to say so great
yeah i finally got around to opening the
hackmd this time um
just a couple short things so uh thanks
to peter
last week we did a bunch of actually
getting the
car data store or car block store to
work so there's a
speaking of new types of data stores if
you've got a car export this will build
an index it
has a couple different indexes um
for random access retrieval into the car
file
and then exports the lock store
interface over it
so that you can not have to re-import
back into badger or something like that
but can just access
um the next thing that i'm
sort of is on my mind is we've got
an ipld schema and it would be really
great to get a graphql
style access over this same thing um
and so how can i do the code gen
off of the existing schema to
a graphql format of it and how can i
then use the same machinery
to actually do the graphql queries off
of that so that's
probably the path that i start walking
down here um
because a lot of what has made our lives
slow
is there's sort of
two things i suppose one is
accessing these individual items is not
so bad
because as peter said they're small
but full enumeration is often very
expensive
so being able to selectively pull out
the small things you want and have an
efficient way to path down to them
is the part that we're often missing so
what we need for that is two things one
is the way to express what it is that
you want to get out
and right now that involves custom go
programming that is fairly painful
and the other is we need efficient
access through these adls
so i don't know if that's going to mean
um sort of custom ipld nodes that i have
to make
um to allow pathing without fully
loading when realizing
the hampt and amped nodes um
likely that's what that means um but
i'll be working on that
the next one is michael
yep um okay so i need to look at the
thing now i've lost it
um i did do stuff last week i promise
um here we go okay
oh yeah uh i wrote in gave a talk at
falcon liftoff
um took a lot of stuff from different
talks that we've given at different
times and
put it all together um went really well
um me
rod and i uh had a talk with mikola
senko and we set up the grant for this
be tree project
um i have some really actually exciting
stuff to share about that later after we
finished the stand up
and then also carson farmer has been
poking at dag to be for a little while
and then
um last week he told me that he had
written a custom
crdt data structure that using the new
value type stuff that i have in there
with a custom replicator that
understands crdt so that's pretty hot
um and then he also went and wrote a
um a degree remote uh
like we have for you know http and other
stuff but over limp p2p
so this is actually like using the lip
pdp network for replicating between dag
to be nodes
but it's not using bit swap it's
actually still using the internal
protocol
um in dag to be which is actually like a
lot more efficient than we have with dag
with uh
graph sync or bitswap because it has a
block link indexing um so it's like
really really good
for replicating around when you have
different uh cache dates so
that's really cool um and it prompted me
to do some other improvements today to
be like making that remote setup like
quite a bit nicer and and some other
things like we were running to get lfs
tests
always and we should really only run
them in ci because they're kind of hard
to run locally
um and yeah that's where that stuff is
um next up is
chris
ah big old word a bunch of text up there
but
um mainly i just saw crafts in class
week
kind of a lot of i guess dead ends or
kind of this starts but
um one thing is i so go graph sync has
this kind of
message queue mechanism where aggregates
you know requests responses
and sends them out and i started
implement the same thing but
it's getting like super complex and i
kind of thought about it and really
isn't
i think it's not worth doing that up
front so basically i kind of punted on
it
ended up just creating a new stream per
request which isn't
as performant but probably insignificant
from a requester point of view
um and then i went uh i met with
eric on selectors because despite
reading the standard multiple or the
spec multiple times i just still
couldn't quite
rock it and my selector i was sending to
go ipfs was not doing
what i thought it was so um he walked me
through it and just
i think this link has gone out before
but uh the chain saved guys have this
uh example um by the link in there which
shows
like data with a selector and then what
what
this selector does as a result is kind
of this test factor which is super
helpful i think overall we need some
kind of tutorial though
because i don't think it's all that um
the spec is just not
grokable probably for a lot of people it
wasn't for me uh
let's see so i move forward with working
on employing the requester
uh logic inside and so it's actually
working end-to-end where i can actually
receive blocks and put in the block
store and view them so that's
cool and i started working on doing some
basic validation since i don't have a
selector engine i was thinking oh i'll
just do this depth first
block uh simple validation but there's a
problem with is that
at least with go ipfs so go ipfs require
only works with depth limited recursive
selectors and so
like only up to 100 as well so that
means
is that if i have a graph that's deeper
than 100
nodes it's going to give me a partial
graph and i have no way of actually
truly validating that with
without selection engine which also does
at the node level and so i couldn't just
use it by doing block level depth first
um
validation so that was kind of
frustrating when i figured that out
and then the other thing is i worked
through like error handling api design
it's just
feel a little bit nasty but you know
it's doable but just like it feels kind
of didn't feel quite right
and um so uh and i'm gonna come back to
the end here but also discovered
this is also weird i don't know how i
didn't know this but i thought
so js multi-formats is the latest home
for cf for
cids and javascript it's not jscid and
so i didn't know that until today and so
i don't know why
how i missed that didn't realize it but
i also found this new home for blocks
that's the other thing i didn't know
that was
there but um i did need this prefix
functionality
and i know valkyrie mentioned before was
deprecated but i still need to either
create a local competition or
put one in another shared library
because graph sync has this you know
prefix as part of the message so i have
to be able to
get that um so the last thing is just
discussing the api stuff with michael
today he's
you originally suggested me using async
generators iterators for this but i was
just trying to get the basic stuff
working
and talking through them i think you can
actually be helpful for a couple of the
issues i mentioned up there so one is
cleaning up error handling because
instead of having one kind like
master object that keeps track of all
your types of errors and
i can distribute them throughout various
async generators iterators in a pipeline
so i have like a whole
pipeline takes care of multiple things
like i could kind of put
error handling more local to them and it
also makes it more optional so i'll have
to like cloud the
api with all this error handling and
status stuff
um it also should allow me to move the
validation logic out of the core library
so again i can't
i don't have a selector engine yet
someone eventually will build one
and at that point like a user library
could just
put it in there to do the validation if
they want to in some cases they may not
care about validation so that makes
sense and then also the whole block
creation so
when you get these blocks back over
graph sync you need
you need the codec register to be able
to actually
build the block object um which makes
sense but
kind of creates a problem what happens
if i get a block
that i don't have a codec for what do i
do like expecting the whole error
handling well i guess i could have all
those
ways i can configure this kind of stuff
but if i just move that into
a pipeline with these async generators i
can just basically
punt it and kick it down to whoever
cares about to deal with it so i think
that's
feeling good i think where i'm at right
now is
i need some kind of cue structure to
connect uh where i receive messages
it to the actual generator because the
way
the way graph sync works is i get the
requests go out in one stream and then
the responses come back another one and
so i have to like
it's straight up to connect that that
stream that comes back into
the original object where the generator
is and so i'm going to look at using it
pushable which is a
um async generator cue of some type and
if anyone else has any other ideas about
like a queue that's async generator
friendly
basically i want to have something i can
push in it from another
context and have it pop up out of the
generator that's kind of what i want
so anyway that's my updates
thanks and next one is oh i just want to
briefly mention that
have you talked to the js p2p people
because i think they also switched a few
things to
async iterators it's well i didn't talk
to them but that's
one of the things i have to figure out
over time is how the p2p works because
it because this as core it's using
async generators for strings so it's not
so the pdp stream is not like a node.js
chain it's not it's
it's an async generator of data and so
um
so yeah they are using that and that
does have
effects on the design and they don't
it's not just an async generator it's
like
they decorate it with these like it
modules that they have and
and they're it's actually like kind of
difficult to use sometimes without their
other
iterator modules as well so it's it's
actually like quite it's a lot trickier
to figure out than you would think
um cool uh so the next one is eric
so i started about 100 things this week
one of them is i've been working on and
off on making a
rot 13 adl demo so
a demonstration of an advanced data
layout which is implemented in go just
as like
essentially documentation and it does
the rot 13
string transformation so it's useless
except as a demo and so there's a new pr
up
that is continuing to nudge that along
um its purpose is documentation so the
pr might actually be the artifact
hopefully it gets merged at some point
as well
it's also got a couple of caps lock
review comments in it so far that are
um interesting choices
like some of this is trying to figure
out how
codegen for internal nodes should
compose
with the idea of adl's also having like
a synthetic high level and a
substrate internal and like if the
substrate is also cogens like
does that need to be visible should it
not be visible
questions so that's kind of what's going
on over there
um i think daniel's figuring out is
encountering probably many of the same
questions in his much
more encompassing and difficult work
with hamps and so i've been trying to
also wrangle them in a smaller domain
and see if that
is simpler it might not even be simpler
anyway
um a bunch of codec hardening work was
necessary
in glyphild prime in this last week or
so
so there have been some new stuff merged
to master which does
budgeting during the serialization some
of those fixed already made last week so
i think i might have talked about them
but now they're
in master and i've added some regression
tests that actually make sure that they
work
kind of important there are also some
unexpected panics around malformed
cids and so those are now fixed a lot of
this comes from
fuzzing efforts that was done by the
least authority team in general and a
couple of folks in particular
who i think have um i put the full names
in
the document for why they're not clearly
pronounceable anyway um
so and i looked at codex
a lot more as a result of some of that
and i've made a fresh run on codec apis
because those are also bugging me um the
codec apis and go ipld prime
were on a first draft and they're kind
of due for a second draft at some point
they currently work but they leak weird
abstraction details
like it's very clear that they're using
this other
library and some of that library's
configuration structs leak
from these interfaces it's bad
so buying a fresh run on those trying to
make that api less
squeaky and at the same time trying to
make more reusable
components and so this involved doing a
fresh run
at how tokenization works
the idea is very similar to the current
implementations but
is moving the boundary of what the token
is a little bit
and what the big shift is basically
saying we're going to treat ipld links
as a whole token themselves opaquely
and so i think that actually changes the
composability boundary quite a bit and
we'll probably make
writing new codecs it'll have a lot more
code reuse
i hope we'll see it's not done yet um
but i think it should be possible to
implement dag json and dag sieber with a
lot more
actual shared code whereas currently
they are implemented with sort of kind
of like
they inspire each other very closely but
there's enough divergences
that they are textually totally quite
forked and like maintaining this
really sucks i was reminded how much
this sucks while implementing the
budgeting fixes which then had to be
done
twice um i would rather not so
hopefully this new token system makes
more shared code possible there in the
future
but we'll see if somebody wants to
review this because it's an interesting
topic
it's at a point where you can i'm not
sure when i'm going to
push the ball further on this because
the next couple of steps would be
porting a lot more codec code and i'm
just not sure if that's priority or not
right now
so might sit for a while um
talk with chris about selector stuff he
already talked about that a bunch
but i definitely agree with his comment
that we need to move more examples into
the docs and specs repos
because we've got those out there but
they're in a different place where
they're not currently discoverable and
that's silly
and something else that i've been
realizing as he was talking about it
again just now
is we've got selectors
as implemented by libraries and most of
the specs are talking about that
behavior as libraries
and a lot of this involves the concept
of like either itering
over or like having a callback style
experience doesn't matter whatever
but um they step across things on the
node level
and we've also got ipfs
having apis for this stuff and those
operate on a
totally different semantic level and
they expose
quite a narrow amount of what selectors
do and they're basically very block
oriented and they give you a bunch of
cids back and this is just like
a useful api for some purposes but it's
way narrower than the general power
level of selectors
and so we should probably add explicit
documentation
about this is something i'm realizing
just now
so that goes on a to-do list somewhere
we've talked a lot more about um docs
and specs a lot of folks in the last
week we've had a couple of additional
meetings to
figure out stuff around that one of the
things that bulker brought up was stuff
around vocabulary we use around
multi-formats versus multicodecs and
what the issues are there
there's some new pull requests with
notes from those discussions
possibly some language should change it
seemed like there was some strong
agreement how and what exactly
less clear agreement so far
and talking more about surprise strings
i've got another document about the
string situation
so this is one that i've just started in
the last couple of days since our last
group discussion about this and there's
a link
in the hack md and the main feature of
this one
is it breaks stuff down into
a two-dimensional table and so
one dimension of the table is which
kinds are there in the data model and
what do they mean
and so it talks about bytes of course
and it talks about strings
and it also does some discussion in
terms of text and for the purpose of
this document i say strings are
what is referred to if you use the
sequence of eight bit bytes definition
and
text is how i'll refer to the
we actually check unicode thing and so
the document explores
both of them at the same time just as
different columns in this
little graph of things we could do
and then the um the far left side of the
graph so the
feature of each row is how we define
what map keys are and how traversals
work implicitly
and so this comes out to be a really big
table
there are options it's such a big table
and there are so many details per box
that i just did the table and filled it
in with two letters for what grid square
this is and then there's like h3 tags
below this so there's a
a through fc options
i just want to warn anyone wanting to
read this that is
that's a thing it's there um
enjoy
a lot of them are
i tried to fill out this table in a very
complete way and so
some of these are very similar to each
other it turns out that most of the
entire c column has comments saying
this has the problems that are endemic
to the c column probably
you know just skim over this entire
column
um there are a couple of things that are
plausible there are a couple that are
less plausible
some of the reasons are to do with
codecs some of the reasons are to do
with
how difficult they would be for
libraries to implement um
some of them are how it will close off
future codecs some of them are about how
it would
struggle to be retrofittable to existing
codecs
i cannot read the entire document out
loud again so i'll just stop now and say
such a document exists please enjoy it
if you are so inclined
and that will be the end of my update
other than to say holy crap
rod's work this week is ridiculously
cool
and he should post more screenshots of
it because it's so cool
i'm done
thanks so we are
through is there anything else anyone
wants to talk about
or is any updates on
i would just i would just like to
highlight the
phrase that eric said our last group
session about
string keys i think we should put last
group therapy session because that's
what this is turning into
string thing is a problem
we have to find a limiting function to
how deeply we go with strings
uh the risk we have with this one and i
know it's important for
val for your implementation but we have
a risk here of
going into that space of designing a
system so perfect that it's not usable
[Music]
so we need to be careful
it's just like it's interesting that
basically we all share the same concerns
but we have like we differ on like what
the outcome
means basically so we are uh all what an
easy to implement system and we have
different ideas about like what it means
but it's cool that we share the values
so that's that's fine
anyway i think we shouldn't go into like
this topic now because we only have six
minutes left
if it would be six hours it would be
enough time but six minutes is just not
enough
just to say that more that more meetings
are scheduled about strings already so
you know the saga continues
all right um is this everything then
i close the meeting even beef
no no there's one there's one last thing
there's the thing on the agenda i put it
on the agenda you
read the agenda um i just say that
there's an idea sorry yeah
so um yeah so i talked to a couple
people about this already but
but um not everybody's had a chance um
so we asked mikola in this grant to
write us a b treat
um and we assumed that it would be we'd
need to do rebalances and then it
wouldn't be fully hash consistent
because like those are the constraints
that we've decided like were reasonable
for assorted
structures because we didn't have a way
to not do that
and nikola figured out a technique and
we're waiting on the implementation now
to make sure that it works but
the technique seems really sound when
you think about it and
i'm kind of kicking myself for not
having seen it before
so real quick if you're familiar with
how the hamp works
we hash the keys and then that puts them
in basically like a random address space
and then we use the the the config
variables to figure out like what the
bucketing should be like and that will
give us like a balance sort of
height and width for for the tree
so mccola decided to figure it out was
that if you take a
floating fingerprint algorithm like
rabin right
or something better probably and you
start to tweak the settings the settings
basically give you
what is a target amount of size right by
some definition of size
um like it's making you know these these
things more likely or less likely to get
like a particular size of a
chunk if you throw random data into it
you literally just get that behavior
it's not gonna find sort of
uh critical common spaces like you do in
text
it's actually just going to give you
like like chunks around the same size
that you were asking for depending on
kind of the randomness you just have to
make sure you feed it random data
so what mccoll decided to do is
basically take
um any you can do this with any sorting
structure but but take the b3 for
instance you have these key value pairs
if you make all of the values links to
the blocks
then there's a hash digest that you can
use as a random value
and so instead of having the static
setting for what the bucket size should
be
you just take like as you have your
sorting structure
you take all of the value digest and you
plug them into the fingerprinting
algorithm
and then you take those boundaries that
it gives you and you use those as your
buckets
and then whenever you do a mutation you
just have to reprocess the data in there
and then if you reach the end of it and
you haven't hit another block boundary
because this has changed the
fingerprinting a little bit
you you you go into the branch beside it
basically
so it's a little bit more expensive than
a traditional sort of b tree
change because it's self-balancing as it
works
but it's also fully deterministic so
regardless of the insertion order you'll
get a consistent hash for the entire
structure no matter how you mutate it
and it's going to be relatively balanced
depending on your settings
the only question is like what algorithm
do you use for the fingerprinting and
what are the settings because those are
going to give you like dramatically
different performance characteristics
for the structure
but like that's where all of peter's
work comes in in like having this
whole setup where we like go and throw a
bunch of data at this problem and go
like ah
like take all this random data and then
tell us what these structures look like
so that we can figure out what the ideal
one looks like um
so we're like in a really good position
to use this technique uh
so yeah we're like kind of waiting on
the implementation and stuff but this
gives us like a whole new area
of data structure development and
research because we had thought that we
wouldn't actually have a way
generically to just build sorted
structures that were fully hash
consistent so you couldn't use them in
filecoin you couldn't use them in any
place where the insertion order was
really going to matter
and now like we can do that we actually
have a technique for building these data
structures if
we don't find some huge problem with it
between now and the implementation
so i wanted to share that and get it on
people's radar to kind of think about
but it's pretty exciting stuff
thanks so now we are at the hour mark
so any other things i have to look at
the agenda no
there's another item no there's no other
item so
thanks for attending and see you all
next week again bye everyone